Akporhonor Eyimofe Anita
ENG1804713


ECP Assignment

Is a super computer more intelligent, more powerful and faster than a 9 year old?

For Intelligence:

    • A computer does not generate its own ideas but a nine yaer old can 
      think for itself.
      MY VIEW: This is true, computers have to be programmed, a human can create their
      ideas on their own)
      
    • The nine year olds are better suited for adapdation in the real
      world as the computer can not totally think for itself in these kind of
      situations
      MY VIEW: Adaptability is a key feature of the human race, this stands true as well)
      
    • The children might forget some things on how to solve a problem but
      the computer does not have such a problem and it uses all its resource
      to solve a particular problem.
      MY VIEW: The human mind processes a great deal of thoughts and ideas every second,
      it is expected for things to slip sometimes but while a computer doesn't have this flaw,
      it's stored data could get corrupted (and the computer thus is rendered useless)
      
    • The computer is less prone to mistake than the 9 year olds and the
      precision of its answer are to a much higher level.
      MY VIEW: A computer's precision can be preprogrammed, this doesn't adequately serve as
      a benchmark for intelligence
      
    • A child for example has eyes and a computer has an equivalent camera,
      the brain of the child by instinct knows how to accomodate the focus of
      the eye while a computer has to be programmed to use the camera if it
      does not already have a driver for it.
      MY VIEW: This rides on the adaptability principle for humans and while computers haven't
      achieved this totally, to a high degree of certainty they can mimic humans in this. 

    • From the dictionary definition of inteligence which is to be able to
      apply acquired knowledge in real situations, the 9 year old will not be up to
      par with a computer that was designed to do just that.
      MY VIEW: This is expected.

    • Another point was made that the computer has a limited intelligence
      as it can only apply its knowledge in a very specific way and is not
      flexible in its application.
      MY VIEW: Computers are increasing in generalization everyday with the addition of AI,
      Machine and Self Learning. It's intelligence would soon be applicable everywhere.
      
    • A new agument was brought up saying “computers are only as good as the
      programs which are written by people”.
      MY VIEW: I totally support this. Buggy code would lead to buggy programs/computers.
      
    • And then a counter Argument that a nine year old cannot write code that
      complicted.
      MY VIEW: Children may not be able to handle that kind of complexity but with time, 
      they would.

    • A new analogy was proposed to the class about how  even the modern day
      super computer is incapable of rendering a realistic simulation or reality
      even with the capability of it processing power because it strugles to
      render quantum physics and even the present most powerful quantum computer 
      that is built for just this purpose fails to even accurately render an atom
      with its present processing power.


For Speed:
    • A member of the class said wrongfully that the brain used chemicals to
      transmit information and a computer was clearly faster as it uses 
      electricity i.e electrons traveling at a fraction of the speed of light.
      
    • The Lecturer clearified that the brain also sent signals through
      electric signals and that could not be said to be a plus for the
      supercomputer.
      
    • Another member of the class mentioned that the computer is more suited
      to performing reapeated tasks like data processing and calculations.
      It excels when it comes to making calculated guesses based on data that
      it already has and does such processes extremely fast.
      
    MY VIEW: Due to the computers specialization, attaining high speeds is not
    an issue. The human brain may not be able to process data as fast as a 
    specialized computer can.


For Power:
    • At this point, a member of the class was quick to mention that the super
      computer was the clear winner as in previosly stated, it can run millions
      of calculations a second steadily.
      
    • But this does not take into account that the brain also runs “Background
      processes” like controling breathing when were not paying attention, the 
      heartbeat, the flow of secretions in the body like the mucus that lines
      the lungs and makes breathing possible, the creation of new cells where 
      they are needed, e.t.c

     MY VIEW: In terms of power, the human brain still has untapped potential.
     Currently functioning below 10% of capacity, so many functions can be 
     performed. In a bid to maximize this usage potential, just like martial 
     artists, the brain has to be trained to reach it's full potential. This is
     what most people regard as 'Genius'/Field Specialization.


Conclusion/Personal opinion:
     Overall, the computer has really useful strengths (Speed and a greater degree
     of precision when programmed to) but the human mind tends to get tired of
     repetitive tasks and this is one of the places where the computer comes in.

     Automation and repetition can easily be delegated (by a human programming the
     computer to) and removed from the retinue of tasks the human mind needs to perform.

     I believe, the computer and the human, both built differently, can never have a 
     suitable basis for comparison due to the differences in their make-up and diversity 
     of their operations.

